Exercise 2
----------

-  Deadline: **Friday 27th September, 14.00**
-  All hand-ins in form of pull request on GitHub
-  Make sure you use the correct repository, branch, project and file
   names!
-  Check that your code passes the “quality control” in PyCharm!


Task A
~~~~~~

Create file ``file_stats.py`` and paste the following code into it:

.. code:: python

   def char_counts(textfilename):
       pass

   if __name__ == '__main__':

       filename = 'file_stats.py'
       frequencies = char_counts(filename)
       for code in range(256):
           if frequencies[code] > 0:
               character = ''
               if code >= 32:
                   character = chr(code)
               
               print(
                   '{:3}{:>4}{:6}'.format(
                       code, character, frequencies[code]
                   )
               )

Then write code for the ``char_counts()`` function that opens the file
with the given ``filename`` using encoding ``utf-8`` and reads the
entire file content into a single string. It shall then count how often
each character code (0–255) occurs in the string and return the result
as a list or tuple, where ``result[i]`` gives the number of occurances
of charactor code ``i``.

Notes
^^^^^

-  ``ord(c)`` returns the numerical value (0–255) representing the
   character value, while ``chr(i)`` returns the character represented
   by numerical value ``i``.
-  This code will work correctly for files containing English
   characters, as well as most western European characters (all those
   that have a UTF-8 code less than 256).
-  It will not work for, e.g., ‘サイトマップ’ (japansk “saitomappo”,
   i.e., “site map”), since in this case the UTF-8 character codes are
   larger than 256:

.. code:: ipython3

    [ord(kana) for kana in 'サイトマップ']




.. parsed-literal::

    [12469, 12452, 12488, 12510, 12483, 12503]



Task B
~~~~~~

Information theory defines an entropy for messages (texts). Essentially,
the entropy describes how difficult it is to guess individual letters in
a message (see
`Wikipedia <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Entropy_%28information_theory%29>`__),
or equivalently, how much information a message carries per letter.

-  :math:`N`: number of letters in message
-  :math:`n_i`: number of occurences of letter :math:`i` (:math:`i` is
   the UTF-8 code for the letter)
-  :math:`p_i = n_i/N`: frequency of the letter in the message

Entropy is then defined as

.. math::

       H = - \sum_i p_i \log_2 p_i

-  Since :math:`\lim_{p\to 0+} p \log p = 0`, we define
   :math:`p\log p=0`, i.e., we drop all terms in the sum for which
   :math:`p_i=0`.
-  Since we use the logarithm to base 2, the resulting entropy is
   measured in bits.

For example, if we have the message “abaa”, then we have
:math:`p_{97} = 3/4`, :math:`p_{98} = 1/4`, and :math:`p_i = 0` for all
other :math:`i`. Then

.. math::


       H = - \left(\frac{3}{4} \log_2 \frac{3}{4} 
         + \frac{1}{4} \log_2 \frac{3}{4} \right) \text{bit} \approx 0.81 \text{bit}.

Create file ``message_entropy.py`` and add the ``letter_freqs()``
function from Excercise 01, Task C; you may use the code from the sample
solution.

Further add the following code:

.. code:: python


   def entropy(message):
        pass

   if __name__ == "__main__":
       for msg in '', 'aaaa', 'aaba', 'abcd', 'This is a short text.':
           print('{:25}: {:8.3f} bits'.format(msg, entropy(msg)))

Write code for function ``entropy()`` that returns the entropy
calculated according to the equation above.

Hints
^^^^^

-  Since ``letter_freq()`` collects statistics in a dictionary, it will
   work for all UTF-8 characters.
-  In order to compute the entropy, do you need only values of the
   counts dictionary (the character counts) or do you also need the
   dictionary keys, i.e., the characters themselves?

Task C
~~~~~~

`Bubble sort <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bubble_sort>`__ is a simple
sorting algorithm that works as follows. Assume we have a list, and we
know how to compare two list elements using “less than”. We want to sort
the list in increasing order, so ``[4, 2, 3, 7]`` becomes
``[2, 3, 4, 7]``. We proceed as follows (I suggest you try this with
playing cards first to see how it works):

1. Start with the first element in the list, compare it with the second.
2. If they are in wrong order, exchange them.
3. Now compare the second and third element and exchange them if
   necessary.
4. Proceed with third and fourth, fourth and fifth, etc, until you have
   compared and, if necessary, swapped the second-last and last
   elements.
5. At this point, the last element in the list will be the largest
   element in the list (why?).
6. Now start again from the beginning of the list, but stop once you
   reach the second-last element in the list.
7. Then, start again from the begining of the list, but stop once you
   reach the third-last element in the list, etc, until just the first
   and second element are left to compare.

Write code for the bubble sort function in the following code fragment
(copy the code to your file ``bubble_sort.py``).

Note: The ``bubble_sort()`` function shall **not modify** the list or
tuple passed to it. It shall return a new list with the data in sorted
order.

.. code:: python

   def bubble_sort(data):
       pass

   if __name__ == "__main__":

       for data in ((),
                    (1,),
                    (1, 3, 8, 12),
                    (12, 8, 3, 1),
                    (8, 3, 12, 1)):
           print('{!s:>15} --> {!s:>15}'.format(data, bubble_sort(data)))

The program should print the data in sorted order.
