Exersice 04
===========

1. This exercise must be submitted as a pull request on GitHub.
4. Create branch ``ex04``, **branching from the ``master``branch**.
5. Commit your work regularly, push when you like.
6. When you are done, push all remaining changes to GitHub.
7. Go to the ``ex04`` branch on GitHub, and create a pull request there.
8. Remember to add the correct TA as a reviewer.
9. You must create the pull request before the deadline.

**Deadline for submission: Tuesday, October 29, 14.00.**

Use of prescribed folder and file names
---------------------------------------

In order to receive credit for your work, you must use **precisely those
file and folder names** that are prescribed in these instructions.
Professional software projects, particularly those running over a long
time and involving large teams, usually have strict internal rules on
names and code formatting, so this requirement will train you in good
professional practice. It also makes it much easier to review your code,
so we can concentrate on giving you meaningful feedback on your
programming, instead of spending time on finding out what is where.

Code inspection requirements
----------------------------

To be approved, your code must pass code inspection in PyCharm without
any warning except spelling errors when executing
``Code > Inspect code ...``. To make sure that code is tested properly,
ensure that the following settings are in place in Settings/Parameters

-  ``Editor > Code Style``: ``Right margin (columns)`` is set to ``79``
-  ``Editor > Inspections``: ``PEP8 coding style violation`` and
   ``PEP8 naming convention violation`` are checked (and all else that
   is checked by default)

The programming tasks
---------------------

1. Exercise 04 consists of several tasks, where each task requires you
   to write a single Python script (``*.py`` file).
2. You have to make a reasonable effort on **all tasks** and achieve
   reasonable solutions for at least half of the tasks.
3. Create a folder ``ex04`` in the ``src/YOUR_NAME_ex`` directory in 
   your Exercise directory.
4. For each task, create a file with the prescribed name in the
   ``ex04`` folder.
5. Each Python file shall begin with the following header:

   ::

       # -*- coding: utf-8 -*-

       __author__ = ''
       __email__ = '@nmbu.no'

   where the ``__author__`` and ``__email__`` strings shall contain your
   name and email address.

6. Code inspection in PyCharm (the little coloured square in the
   top-right corner of the editor) shall show no problems, i.e., be
   green.

Test for EX04
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the course repository, you will find a set of tests for this exercise
in ``src/ex04/test_ex04.py``. Copy this file to your own
``ex04`` folder and create a configuration to run it from
PyCharm. It performs a small set of tests on your code to ensure that
your code provides the right classes and methods with the proper number
of arguments. It also lightly checks that the code behaves correctly.

Your code should pass all tests before you submit it.

Task A: Random generator classes
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Filename: ``myrand.py``

Implement two random number generator classes, ``LCGRand`` and
``ListRand``. Both classes shall have a constructor (``__init__()``) and
a method ``rand()`` that returns the next random number. ``rand()``
should not take any arguments except ``self``.

Class ``LCGRand`` shall implement a linear congruential generator (LCG),
which generates numbers according to the following equation

::

   r[n+1] = a * r[n] mod m

where ``a = 7**5 = 16807`` and ``m = 2**31-1``. For this class, the
constructor takes a single argument, the seed (in addition to ``self``).

The ``ListRand`` class shall be based on a list of numbers: For this
class, the constructor takes a list of numbers, and ``rand()`` returns
the first number from that list when it is called for the first time,
the second number when called the second time, etc. It shall raise a
``RuntimeError`` if ``rand()`` is called after the last number in the
list has been delivered.

The main program shall instantiate at least one generator of each class
and print a few numbers from each.

Task B: From Samfunnet to Pentagon
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Filename: ``walker.py``

Simulate a student’s way home to Pentagon after a hard night at
Samfunnet. The student is a walker in a one-dimensional world. At each
point in time, the student is at a position ``x`` and steps to the left
(``x-1``) or right (``x+1``) with equal probability. The students starts
at some ``x0``, and stops when he or she arrives home at position ``h``.

Create a class ``Walker`` with

-  a constructor taking the initial position and the position of the
   students home as arguments
-  a method ``move`` to take one step
-  a method ``is_at_home`` to check whether the student is at home
-  a method ``get_position`` to access the students current position
-  a method ``get_steps`` to access the number of steps the student has
   taken in total

All methods except the constructor shall only take ``self`` as argument.

Use either ``random.randint()`` or ``random.uniform()`` to get the
necessary random numbers.

In the main program, run five simulations each for each of the following
distances between initial position and home: 1, 2, 5, 10, 20, 50, 100.
For each initial distance, print the number of steps taken by the
walker.

The program output should look like this:

::

   Distance:   1 -> Path lengths: [1, 1, 1, 3, 91]
   Distance:   2 -> Path lengths: [2, 2, 4, 24, 422]
   Distance:   5 -> Path lengths: [15, 25, 29, 33, 199]
   Distance:  10 -> Path lengths: [38, 196, 364, 1442, 17282]
   Distance:  20 -> Path lengths: [2630, 3830, 5100, 6112, 30522]
   Distance:  50 -> Path lengths: [1068, 6752, 45354, 57386, 174428]
   Distance: 100 -> Path lengths: [1936, 2104, 17868, 48264, 208788]

Hint: It is probably useful to define a function that handles the
walking process from start to home.
