Working in a team
-----------------

All work on this programming assignment shall be done by a team of two
students. Team members shall work on the assigment in a `pair
programming <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pair_programming>`__ fashion,
i.e., both team members shall work together on a single computer. At any
one time, one team member is the *driver* with control of keyboard and
mouse, while the other is the *navigator*, giving suggestions to and
reflecting on the code with the driver. Driver and navigator switch
roles frequently: each team member shall be driver for about half the
time, and you should switch at least every 30 minutes.

Sharing code via GitHub
--------------------------

In this exercise, you will collaborate on code by sharing code via
GitHub.

Setup
~~~~~

1. You choose the exersice repository of one teammate to work in, e.g., Pia.
   Pia

   -  creates a branch, ``pa01`` in her repository
   -  creates the ``pa01`` folder inside the ``src`` folder.
   -  adds an initial ``chutes.py`` file
   -  commits that file
   -  pushes her changes to GitHub
   -  if Pia's repository is private, then she must add Ahmed as a 
      colllaborator

2. Pia gives her partner, Ahmed, read access to her (if it is private)
   ``INF200_exercises`` repository.
3. Ahmed

   -  forks ``INF200_exercises`` on GitHub and renames it to
      ``INF200_exercises_pia``
   -  clones the fork to his computer
   -  checks out the ``pa01``
   -  makes changes to ``chutes.py``
   -  commits the changes
   -  pushes the changes to *his fork* ``INF200_PiaPytonFork`` on
      GitHub

4. Pia

   -  adds Ahmed’s fork as a new remote repository in GitKraken
      (similar to how you added the course exersice repo to pull into
      your personal repo) and names it Ahmed.
   -  in GitKraken, Pia right clicks on the ``pa01`` branch in the Ahmed
      remote and selects "merge Ahmed/pa01 into pa01" in the left sidebar.
   -  make changes to the code, commits them and pushes back to her
      repository

5. Ahmed

   -  adds Pia's GitHub repository as a new remote repository in GitKraken
      (similar to how you added the course exersice repo to pull into
      your personal repo) and names it Pia.
   -  in GitKraken, Pia right clicks on the ``pa01`` branch in the Ahmed
      remote and selects "merge Pia/pa01 into pa01" in the left sidebar.
   -  make changes to the code, commits them and pushes back to his
      repository

Work
~~~~

Ahmed and Pia regularly switch roles as *driver* (with keyboard) and
*navigator*):

-  Immediately before switching roles, the driver commits and pushes all
   changes that haven’t been pushed yet (you can commit and push more
   often, but you *must* do so before switching, otherwise you risk
   merge conflicts).
-  The new driver starts by pulling all changes from the old driver’s
   repo and solves potential merge conflicts before continuing.

Submission
~~~~~~~~~~

1. Remember to place both your names and mail addresses in the
   ``__author__`` and ``__email__`` variables, separated by comma.
2. Since you started working from Pia’s repo, only Pia creates a PR to
   her ``master``.

   -  Mention both names in the description of the PR.
   -  In addition to your TA, make the programming partner a reviewer.
   -  The programming partner approves the PR to confirm that she/he is
      co-author and agrees with submission.

**Deadline for submission: Friday, October 18, 14.00.**

Note
^^^^

Remember to cite sources when using ideas or code snippets from the
internet or books!

Use of prescribed folder and file names
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In order to receive credit for your work, you must use **precisely the
file, folder and function names** prescribed in these instructions.
Professional software projects, particularly those running over a long
time and involving large teams, usually have strict internal rules on
names and code formatting, so this requirement will train you in good
professional practice. It also makes it much easier to review your code,
so we can concentrate on giving you meaningful feedback on your
programming, instead of spending time on finding out what is where.

Code inspection requirements
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To be approved, your code must pass code inspection in PyCharm without
any warning except spelling errors when executing
To make sure that code is tested properly, ensure that the following 
settings are in place in Settings/Parameters

-  ``Editor > Code Style``: ``Right margin (columns)`` is set to ``79``
-  ``Editor > Inspections``: ``PEP8 coding style violation`` and
   ``PEP8 naming convention violation`` are checked (and all else that
   is checked by default)

Snakes and Ladders
------------------

In *Programming Assignment 01* you shall implement a game known as
*Snakes and Ladders*, or as *Stigespill* in Norwegian.

Introduction
~~~~~~~~~~~~

`Snakes & Ladders <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snakes_and_Ladders>`__,
also known as Snakes & Ladders or as “Stigespillet” in Norwegian, is a
popular childrens board game. It is played on a board of 90 enumerated
squares, where some squares are connect by ladders and others by snakes.

The rules are as follows:

1. Each player has one figure, which starts at the imaginary square 0 to
   the left of square 1.
2. Each time it is a player’s turn, she throws a six-sided die and moves
   her figure the given number of fields forward.
3. If the figure stops on a field at the bottom of a ladder, the figure
   moves immediately up the ladder.
4. If the figure stops on a field at the top of a chute, the figure
   moves immediately down the chute.
5. The game ends when the first player reaches (or passes) field 90.

A *move* in the game is defined as the complete process of rolling the
die, moving forward and moving up/down a ladder/chute when necessary.

This game has a number of interesting properties:

-  The movement of each player is completely independent of the
   movements of all other players as long as no player reaches field 90.
-  Each move is completely determined by the current position of the
   figure and the cast of the die.

In particular, each move does not depend on the past moves of the figure
in any other way than through the current position of the figure.
Because the future depends on the past only through the present position
of the figure, the movement of the figure is a `Markov
process <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markov_process>`__. Markov
processes play an important role in modeling of a large range of systems
in biology, physics, economy etc.

An interesting question is how long games last, i.e., how many moves a
player has to make before reaching or passing field 90. The number of
moves will vary from game to game, and we are interested in the
probability distribution for the duration of the game. This is a
*first-passage-time problem*, an important class of problems first
studied by Erwin Schrödinger in 1915 (Zur Theorie der Fall- und
Steigversuche an Teilchen mit Brownscher Bewegung. *Physikalische
Zeitschrift* **16**:289–295, 1915).

Programming Task
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Write a program that simulates Snakes & Ladders for a given number of
players and collects data on the frequency of game durations. The user
should be able to choose the number of players freely, from one player
and up.

The board
^^^^^^^^^

For this programming task, assume a board with 90 squares and the
following seven snakes and seven ladders.

Ladders
'''''''

+--------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
| From   | 1  | 8  | 36 | 43 | 49 | 65 | 68 |
+========+====+====+====+====+====+====+====+
| **To** | 40 | 10 | 52 | 62 | 79 | 82 | 85 |
+--------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+

Snakes
''''''

+--------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+
| From   | 24 | 33 | 42 | 56 | 64 | 74 | 87 |
+========+====+====+====+====+====+====+====+
| **To** | 5  | 3  | 30 | 37 | 27 | 12 | 70 |
+--------+----+----+----+----+----+----+----+

Requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Your program shall

1. have file name ``snakes_and_ladders.py``
2. define the following functions with the given signatures and
   semantics to play single and multiple games

.. code:: python

   def single_game(num_players):
       """
       Returns duration of single game.
       
       Arguments
       ---------
       num_players : int
           Number of players in the game

       Returns
       -------
       num_moves : int
           Number of moves the winning player needed to reach the goal
       """

   def multiple_games(num_games, num_players):
       """
       Returns durations of a number of games.

       Arguments
       ---------
       num_games : int
           Number of games to play
       num_players : int
           Number of players in the game
       
       Returns
       -------
       num_moves : list
           List with the numbedr of moves needed in each game.
       """

   def multi_game_experiment(num_games, num_players, seed):
       """
       Returns durations of a number of games when playing with given seed.

       Arguments
       ---------
       num_games : int
           Number of games to play
       num_players : int
           Number of players in the game
       seed : int
           Seed used to initialise the random number generator
       
       Returns
       -------
       num_moves : list
           List with the numbedr of moves needed in each game.
       """

3. contain a ``__main__`` block that calls ``multi_game_experiment()``
   to play 100 games with four players and an arbitrary seed, and prints
   out

   -  the shortest and longest game duration
   -  the median game duration
   -  the mean game duration and its standard deviation

The program shall **not** request any input from the user.

In addition, you shall create and submit a Jupyter notebook called
``chutes_analysis.ipynb`` in which you simulate games with 1, 2, 4, and
8 players and create histograms showing the distribution of game
durations.

Hints
^^^^^

-  Think first about the data structure you want to use to represent the
   game board, i.e., ladders and chutes.
-  Use the ``random`` module to generate random numbers.
-  ``multi_game_experiment()`` does little else than call
   ``multiple_games()``—which important additional step does it perform?
   Look at the argument list!
-  You can use ``matplotlib.pyplot.hist`` to draw histograms. Take a
   look at the documentation for this function and think a little about
   where you want to place borders of bins. Histograms with a large
   number of bins often look better if you use ``histtype='step'``

