Working in a team
=================

All work on this programming assignment shall be done by a team of two
students. 

**Exceptions must be approved in advance. Submissions not developed in a
team without prior explicit approval by Plesser will not be accepted.**

Team members shall work on the assigment in a `pair
programming <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pair_programming>`__ fashion,
i.e., both team members shall work together on a single computer. At any
one time, one team member is the *driver* with control of keyboard and
mouse, while the other is the *navigator*, giving suggestions to and
reflecting on the code with the driver. Driver and navigator switch
roles frequently: each team member shall be driver for about half the
time, and you should switch at least every 30 minutes.

Sharing code via GitHub
=======================

In this exercise, you will collaborate the same way as with PA01.

Setup
~~~~~

1. You choose the exersice repository of one teammate to work in, e.g., Pia.
   Pia

   -  creates a branch, ``pa02`` in her repository
   -  creates the ``pa02`` folder inside the ``src`` folder.
   -  adds an initial ``snakes.py`` file
   -  commits that file
   -  pushes her changes to GitHub
   -  if Pia's repository is private, then she must add Ahmed as a 
      colllaborator

2. Pia gives her partner, Ahmed, read access to her (if it is private)
   ``INF200_exercises`` repository.
3. Ahmed

   -  forks ``INF200_exercises`` on GitHub and renames it to
      ``INF200_exercises_pia``
   -  clones the fork to his computer
   -  checks out the ``pa02``
   -  makes changes to ``snakes.py``
   -  commits the changes
   -  pushes the changes to *his fork* ``INF200_exercises_pia`` on
      GitHub

4. Pia

   -  adds Ahmed’s fork as a new remote repository in GitKraken
      (similar to how you added the course exersice repo to pull into
      your personal repo) and names it Ahmed.
   -  in GitKraken, Pia right clicks on the ``pa02`` branch in the Ahmed
      remote and selects "merge Ahmed/pa02 into pa02" in the left sidebar.
   -  make changes to the code, commits them and pushes back to her
      repository

5. Ahmed

   -  adds Pia's GitHub repository as a new remote repository in GitKraken
      (similar to how you added the course exersice repo to pull into
      your personal repo) and names it Pia.
   -  in GitKraken, Pia right clicks on the ``pa02`` branch in the Ahmed
      remote and selects "merge Pia/pa02 into pa02" in the left sidebar.
   -  make changes to the code, commits them and pushes back to his
      repository

Work
~~~~

Ahmed and Pia regularly switch roles as *driver* (with keyboard) and
*navigator*):

-  Immediately before switching roles, the driver commits and pushes all
   changes that haven’t been pushed yet (you can commit and push more
   often, but you *must* do so before switching, otherwise you risk
   merge conflicts).
-  The new driver starts by pulling all changes from the old driver’s
   repo and solves potential merge conflicts before continuing.

Submission
~~~~~~~~~~

1. Remember to place both your names and mail addresses in the
   ``__author__`` and ``__email__`` variables, separated by comma.
2. Since you started working from Pia’s repo, only Pia creates a PR to
   her ``master``.

   -  Mention both names in the description of the PR.
   -  In addition to your TA, make the programming partner a reviewer.
   -  The programming partner approves the PR to confirm that she/he is
      co-author and agrees with submission.

**Deadline for submission: Friday, November 22nd, 14.00.**


Code inspection requirements
----------------------------

To be approved, your code must pass code inspection in PyCharm without
any warning except spelling errors when executing
``Code > Inspect code ...`` on directory ``pa02``. To make sure
that code is tested properly, ensure that the following settings are in
place in Settings/Parameters

-  ``Editor > Code Style``: ``Right margin (columns)`` is set to ``79``
-  ``Editor > Inspections``: ``PEP8 coding style violation`` and
   ``PEP8 naming convention violation`` are checked (and all else that
   is checked by default)

The task
========

In *Programming Assignment 02*, you shall develop an object-oriented
implementation of a Snakes & Ladders simulator. Build on your
experiences from PA02, EX04, and EX05. At the same time, you shall
practice test-driven development.

In ``Exercises/pa02`` you will find ``test_base_pa02.py``, which
contains a basic set of tests prescribing the interface of the classes
you shall write. Copy the file to your own ``pa02`` directory
and create a configuration to run it from PyCharm.

Then create ``snakes_simulations.py`` and add the minimal code necessary
to make all tests in ``test_base_pa02.py`` pass. To do so, you can
implement methods as stubs first, i.e., methods that do nothing, do as
little as at all possible, return fixed values, etc.

Once all tests in ``test_base_pa02.py`` pass, create ``test_pa02.py``
and add some tests of your own. These tests should check that methods
actually do the right thing.

Then improve your simulation code to make the new tests pass before you
write more tests. You should commit tests before writing new simulation
code, and commit new simulation code before you write new tests.
Remember to switch roles regularly!

Tests including randomness
--------------------------

Writing tests for programs including random numbers can be difficult,
because program runs will produce different results for different seeds.
If we know the expected probability distribution of results, we can
apply statistical tests to check if the program produces results
consistent with the expected distribution. Alternatively, we could
manipulate the random number generator produce numbers we know and then
see if the program behaves as expected. These are advanced techniques
and you are not expected to use them in this assignment.

We can still create some basic checks. For example, when calling
``move()`` on a player, her position must change. Also, the position
cannot be smaller than 1 (after the first move), and can never be the
starting point of a chute or ladder.

In order to test some of the methods that return data about simulation
results, you may set the simulation result list (see below) to some
value and then check that you get the correct summary data back.

Classes and methods
-------------------

The text below provides a brief description of the classes you are to
create and the methods these classes shall implement. You are allowed to
add additional methods. The description of classes is mostly in text
form, ``test_base_pa02.py`` specifies the detailed call signatures. You
shall write docstrings for classes and methods yourself.

``Board`` class
---------------

The ``Board`` class shall manage all information about ladders, snakes,
and the goal.

1. If no parameters are given to the ``Board`` constructor, it shall
   create a standard board, with the snakes, ladders, and goal as in
   PA01.
2. Method ``goal_reached()`` shall return true if it is passed a
   position at or beyond the goal.
3. Method ``position_adjustment()`` shall handle changes in position due
   to snakes and ladders. It accepts a position as argument and returns
   the number of positions the player must move forward (in case of a
   ladder) or backward (chute), to get to the correct position. If the
   player is not at the start of a chute or ladder, the method returns
   0.

``Player`` class
----------------

The ``Player`` class and its subclasses manage information about player
position, including information on which board a player “lives”. 1. The
player constructor must receive the board as argument:

.. code:: python

           board = Board()
           player = Player(board)

1. The ``move()`` method moves the player by implementing a die cast,
   the following move and, if necessary, a move up a ladder or down a
   chute. It does not return anything.

``ResilientPlayer`` class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is a subclass of ``Player`` with slightly different moving
behavior: When a resilient player slips down a chute, he will take extra
steps in the next move, in addition to the roll of the die. The number
of extra steps is provided as an argument to the constructor, default is
1. Extra steps are taken immediately after the steps prescribed by the
die and before snakes and ladders are checked.

``LazyPlayer`` class
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This is a subclass of ``Player`` as well. After climbing a ladder, a
lazy player drops a given number of steps. The number of dropped steps
is an optional argument to the constructor, default is 1. The player
never moves backward: if, e.g., the die cast results in 1 step and the
player is to drop 3 steps, the player does not move -2 steps but just
stays in place.

``Simulation`` class
--------------------

The ``Simulation`` class manages an entire simulation.

In addition to the board, the ``Simulation`` constructor receives - a
random seed to seed the random number generator; - a boolean flag
indicating whether the order or players should be randomized before the
start of each game played; - a list of player *classes*: for each game,
a list of player objects will be created, one player for each entry in
the list.

The example below shows a constructor call for simulations on the
default board in which two players, three resilient players and one lazy
player compete with each other, using a different starting order in each
game:

.. code:: python

   sim = Simulation([Player, Player, ResilientPlayer, ResilientPlayer,
                     ResilientPlayer, LazyPlayer],
                     randomize_players=True)


The class has the following methods:

1. ``single_game()`` runs a single game returning a tuple consisting of
   the number of moves made and the type of the winner, e.g.
   ``(25, 'LazyPlayer')``.
2. ``run_simulation()`` runs a given number of games and stores the
   results in the ``Simulation`` object. It returns nothing.
3. ``get_results()`` returns all results generated by
   ``run_simulation()`` calls so far as a list of result tuples, e.g.,
   ``[(10, 'Player'), (6, 'ResilientPlayer')]``.
4. ``winners_per_type()`` returns a dictionary mapping player types to
   the number of wins, e.g.,
   ``{'Player': 4, 'LazyPlayer': 2, 'ResilientPlayer': 5}``
5. ``durations_per_type()`` returns a dictionary mapping player types to
   lists of game durations for that type, e.g.,
   ``{'Player': [11, 25, 13], 'LazyPlayer': [39], 'ResilientPlayer': [8, 7, 6, 11]}``
6. ``players_per_type`` returns a dictionary showing how many players of
   each type participate, e.g.,
   ``{'Player': 3, 'LazyPlayer': 1, 'ResilientPlayer': 0}``

Retrieving class names
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For a class ``C``, ``C.__name__`` will return the class name as string
``'C'``. If ``c`` is an instance of class ``C``, then ``type(c)`` will
return the class and ``type(c).__name__`` will provide the class name as
string ``'C'``.
